So I'm Jeff Moore and I'm
going to be talking about the
architecture of Core Audio.
The talk is going to be
divided into two parts.
In the first part,
I kind of want to give you kind of
a taste of some of the generalities
behind the Core Audio architecture.
I'm going to talk a little bit about
what generally holds the pieces together.
And then I'm going to talk a little
bit about two specific concepts
that are used throughout the APIs.
First, the property mechanism,
which is an API construct,
and then format agnosticism,
which is kind of an
API concept and philosophy.
After that,
I'm going to introduce you to some
of the specific Core Audio APIs using
four general usage cases,
such as converting audio data
from one format to another,
reading and writing
audio data from a file,
as well as adding an effect to some data,
and playing audio data
out to the speaker.
When you look at the Core Audio API set,
you see a couple of hundred functions
across a couple of dozen header files
and a couple of different frameworks.
It's kind of a lot to
get your head around.
But, you know,
there is some method to that madness.
And the first thing to know about
them is that even though there
seem like there are a lot of APIs,
each API is kind of focused
on one specific job.
And it tends not to, they don't like the
color outside the line.
So if you're dealing
with an audio file API,
you're not going to have to worry
about it doing other things besides
just dealing with audio files.
Now, even though the API set is kind of,
each API is focused in on its own world,
we built the API such that they
are cooperative and that they can
be strung together in order to
perform more complicated tasks.
We've also organized the
API into basically three layers.
At the lowest layer,
you have mostly APIs that
deal with audio hardware,
that deal with talking to the hardware,
such as the IO Audio driver family,
the audio HAL that
talks to those drivers,
Core MIDI, et cetera.
Now, at the middle tier of APIs,
that's where you're going to find kind
of the meat of the Core Audio API set.
That's where you're going to
find the APIs you use the most,
such as the audio converter,
the audio file API, the audio unit APIs,
AU Graph, and a bunch of others.
And then we have a few high-level APIs.
Now, when we talk about high-level
APIs in the Core Audio world,
what we really mean is an
API that combines two or
more of the lower-level APIs.
And then we have a few high-level
APIs that combine them into
one easier-to-use package.
And examples of our high-level
APIs are the Extended Audio File API,
OpenAL, the Audio Queue Services,
and a few others.
So another part of the APIs that
kind of makes everything kind of hang
together is this notion of properties.
A property represents some attribute or
some piece of state of an API object.
And you use a key value pair to
describe this little aspect of the audio
object and to manipulate it as well.
Now,
a given object in the API might have,
you know, lots of properties on it.
So in order to be able to tell
what property you're talking about,
each property has an address.
Now, for most of the Core Audio APIs,
the address is just a
32-bit integer selector.
However, several APIs use further qualify
the address using a scope
and element selector to allow
you to talk about different
sub-pieces of a given API object.
Now, the value of a property can be
pretty much whatever the API needs.
If it's a CF object,
it'll be a CF object.
If it's a structure,
it'll be a structure.
Basically, it's organized as a blob,
a pointer to a blob of memory and a size
that says how big that blob of memory is.
Now, some APIs provide what we
call property listeners.
A property listener is a callback
that you can install on the object in
the API that will get called whenever
the value of that property changes.
And this is a way you keep up with
some of the busyness of some of the
APIs as they go about doing their work.
Now, as I said,
the properties are kind of a
humanifying mechanism with the API set.
And as such, you're going to find
Now, in addition to formats,
to properties,
which is kind of an API mechanics
thing that kind of makes
the API set hang together,
we also have this concept
of format agnosticism that
runs throughout the API set.
Now, what we mean by format agnosticism
is kind of a mindset more than
it is anything mechanical.
It's about organizing your coding
so that you are approaching it
without any preconditions on the
data formats you're dealing with.
This allows you to use whatever
data that comes your way,
no matter what it is,
as long as it can be probably
APIs we'll talk about in a minute.
As I said,
pretty much every Core Audio API uses
format agnosticism in its API,
so by following along
with what the APIs do,
you will naturally build
it into your program.
Now, even though we talk about not
really trying to focus on the
individual details of a format,
the Core Audio API set does have what
we call canonical sample formats.
And the job of the canonical sample
format is first and foremost to
be the default format you get when
you don't specify anything else.
The canonical format is also chosen
to be rich enough that it can be
used as an intermediate format
in various format conversions.
And finally,
the other big job in picking the
canonical format is it has to be an
efficient format for the platform you're
on and in the situation you're in.
Now, on Mac OS X and on the iPhone,
we have basically two kinds
of canonical sample formats.
And we represent them both using a
typedef as well as a set of flags that...
The first one I want to talk
about is the audio sample type and
K-audio format flags canonical.
This represents the canonical format
that is used in I/O situations.
On the desktop, this is a 32-bit native
Indian floating point format.
On the iPhone, however, it's different.
It's a 16-bit integer format.
The other canonical format is the one
that's used for audio units and also
in other signal processing situations.
And it's represented by the audio
unit sample type and K-Audio
format flags audio unit canonical.
Now, this format differs from the I.O.
format.
As I said, it comes up in places where
you're going to be doing
processing and you need headroom.
As such, on the desktop,
the format is going to be a 32-bit float.
It's exactly the same as the I.O.
format.
However, on the phone,
you're going to find that it's an
8.24 fixed-point sample format,
which is much more efficient on a
processor where you don't really
have a good floating-point processor.
Now,
even though you're being format agnostic,
you still have to know a certain
amount of base-level information
about the format you're dealing with.
And we've kind of boiled that information
down into this structure here,
the AudioStream Basic Description.
Let's talk, and you'll see written in our
documentation in other places,
we often refer to the AudioStream
Basic Description by its abbreviation,
ASBD.
So, as you can see,
this structure has several fields,
some of which might jump
out at you as familiar,
such as the sample rate field
and the bits per channel and
channels per frame field.
And those mean pretty much
what you think they do.
They represent the sample
rate of the data stream,
as well as how many bits
deep the samples are,
as well as how many channels
are in the data stream.
The other fields are just as important,
starting with the format
ID and format flags fields.
Now, these two fields together allow
you to identify the general
category of the audio data,
whether it be linear PCM or AAC or MP3,
Apple lossless, what have you.
Now, the other fields,
the bytes per frame,
the frames per packet,
and the bytes per packet fields,
are there to describe different
ways of breaking down the data
stream into component pieces.
And we'll talk a little bit more about
where that's important in a few minutes.
Now,
before we go on and look at a few areas,
we're going to talk a little
bit more about the data stream.
So,
let's go ahead and look at a few ASPDs.
Just wanted to talk a little bit
about how the structure works.
Now, for any given format,
not necessarily all the fields
in the ASPD are going to be used.
For some formats,
it just doesn't make any sense,
or you just can't know that
information about the format.
In other cases,
it just doesn't make any sense.
Now,
in those cases where you have a field in
an ASPD that's not needed for the format,
you have to set that field.
You have to set that field to zero.
You have to be sure you do that,
or otherwise you're going to get the
ASPD rejected by various API calls.
Now, I want to talk a little bit
about some terminology we
use in the core audio world,
particularly these three words here,
sample, frame, and packet.
Now, these terms are very overloaded in
the computer science world as well
as in the signal processing world.
But when we use them within
the core audio context,
we mean something very specific.
A sample is a single data
point for a given change.
It's a single channel in an audio stream.
A frame is a collection of
samples that are time coincident.
You can think of it as kind of the left
and right stereo pair of a stereo signal.
And then you have packets.
Now, packets are important here,
but for now, it's sufficient to define a
packet as a collection of frames
that go together for some person.
It's also important to know that the
frames in a packet are all contiguous.
Here we see an
Audio Stream Basic description
filled out for two channels of
data in the I/O canonical sample
format at a 44:1 sample rate.
And, you know,
as you walk through the fields here,
you can see that we filled out each
field appropriately for this format.
Starting with the format
ID and format flags fields,
you can see that we've
set them to linear PCM,
and we're using the audio format
flags canonical flag to set the flags.
We've also set the sample rate,
and we've set the bits per channel by
using the audio sample type typedef.
You can see we've taken the size of
that and multiplied by eight to get
the number of bits for each channel.
And then for filling
out the other fields,
we just multiply that size by the number
of channels to get the bytes per frame,
which indicates that we
get two times that size,
and the bytes per packet also.
Now, it's interesting to note with
linear PCM is that the number of
frames in each packet of linear
PCM is always going to be one.
And when we talk about packets
a little bit more later,
you'll understand why that is.
Now, another interesting thing to
note about this structure is that
it is also platform agnostic.
This structure is filled out
correctly for each channel.
It's filled out correctly whether
you're on the desktop or the iPhone.
Now, the way we did that is making sure
you're using the audio sample type data
type and the canonical format flags.
Those data types will change
in size depending on what
platform you're compiling for.
Now here we see the
Audio Unit Canonical sample format,
similarly with a two-channel 44:1 stream.
Now going through this,
the main differences to notice here is
that we're using the Audio Unit Canonical
flags here to describe the format flags.
Now, and we've also using the
Audio Unit sample type to
describe the size of the sample.
Now, one thing to note about the
Audio Unit Canonical type is
that this format is what we
call a non-interleaved format.
And so what this means
is that each sample,
each channel is represented by its
own buffer in the processing chain.
As such, you have to be sure you fill
out the ASBD to reflect this.
So you can see here,
we filled out the ASBD.
And so we filled out the bytes
per channel as one times the
size of Audio Unit sample type,
whereas in the previous ASBD,
we did two times.
And that's because of the
difference between interleaved
versus non-interleaved formats.
Now here we see a slightly
more complicated ASBD.
It represents a two-channel format that
has 24-bit samples that have been aligned
high in 32 bits of a big-endian sample.
That sounds like a mouthful,
and it's kind of a complicated format,
but you can see here as you go through
the different fields that we can
represent the sample type pretty much
exactly the way you would expect.
Now the key thing to notice here is
the difference between how we filled
out the channels per frame field,
or I'm sorry, the bytes per frame field.
Here we use the value of 8, which is 2,
the number of channels, times 4 bytes,
which is each sample is actually 4
bytes wide because it's 24 actual
bits carried in a 32-bit word.
And finally, we see an ASBD here that
describes the AAC format.
Now, the key thing to note here is
that the AAC format does not
actually allow you to define,
to fill out a lot of these flags because
they're not really relevant or even
knowable about the AAC data stream.
For example, the bits per channel.
You can't really talk about the bits
per channel of an encoded format,
so in this case, we've set it to zero.
And the fields that otherwise
depend on that also are set to zero,
such as the bytes per frame and others.
One key field that you
will always see filled out,
however,
for AAC is the bytes per packet field,
or the frames per packet field.
So that's so you know how many
frames are in each packet.
Now, in addition to an ASPD,
some formats require an extra
blob of data to fully describe
the content of a data stream.
In Core Audio,
we refer to this blob as a magic cookie.
And magic cookies have to accompany
the data stream that they go with,
and they can't really be separated.
You get the magic cookie when you first
create the stream using an encoder,
and you absolutely have to be sure
you pass it along to the decoder when
it comes time to decode the data.
Now, as you might imagine,
the magic cookie has some fairly
interesting information in it,
and it's tempting to parse
inside the black box.
But you just have to be sure you
remember that it is a black box.
You really shouldn't do that.
Instead, you should use the
various Core Audio APIs,
such as the AudioFormat.
And you can use the AudioFormat
API to get access to the information
contained in the magic cookie.
We talked a little bit earlier about
packets and before we defined a packet
as a collection of sample frames
that go together for some purpose.
Now, going forward,
I'd want to strengthen that definition
a little bit and say that a packet
is actually the smallest indivisible
unit of a given data format.
Now,
you might remember I mentioned earlier
that the number of frames in each
packet of linear PCM is always one.
Now, when you think of that in terms of
this new definition of a packet,
it kind of makes some sense because the
smallest logical block you can break
down a linear PCM stream to is a frame,
to make sense.
And that's why a packet of linear
PCM is exactly one frame of data.
Now, there are three general kinds of
packetization of various data formats
that you're going to run into.
The first is the simplest,
constant bitrate.
What this means is that each packet of
the format has the same size in terms
of both the number of bytes in the
packet and the number of sample frames.
Examples of a constant bitrate
format are linear PCM and IMA.
The great thing about constant
bitrate formats is you always
know how to break the stream apart
into pieces and manipulate it.
You don't need to have any
external framing information
to know how to do that.
The next form of packetization you get
is the variable bitrate packetization.
Variable bitrate or VBR,
as you'll hear me say,
those packets have the same
number of frames in them,
but each packet might vary in size in
terms of bytes from packet to packet.
Now, that gives you a lot of
flexibility in terms of managing
the bitrate of an encoded format.
And because of that,
you're going to find that pretty
much most of the encoded formats
you run into these days are
of a variable bitrate nature,
such as AAC, Apple lossless, MP3, etc.
Now, the final packetization I want
to mention to you is the variable
frame rate packetization.
Now, this is kind of the most
general packetization.
Now, this is kind of the most general
packetization type that you can get,
because each packet can have
both a different size in
terms of the frames in it,
as well as the number
of bytes in the packet.
Now, the final packetization I want
to mention to you is the
variable bitrate packetization.
Variable bitrate packetization.
In the Core Audio world,
we represent a packet using the
AudioStream packet description structure.
Now, one thing to note is that you're
really unlikely to ever run into
one AudioStream packet description.
You're most likely to see
packet descriptions ganged
up into arrays of them,
and they are used to describe
another buffer of memory
that contains audio data.
Packet descriptions are
absolutely required when you're
dealing with variable bitrate
and variable framerate formats.
Every time you run into an API and
you're dealing with that kind of format,
you're going to need to be filling out
and passing along packet descriptions.
Now, at the bottom of the slide,
you can see how a packet
description is declared.
It has a field that represents an
offset into the buffer of audio
data where the packet starts.
It has a field that represents how
long the packet is in terms of bytes.
Now,
that middle field is a little tricky.
In a variable bitrate format,
the number of frames in
each packet is the same.
So you can get that information
from the ASPD format.
As such,
you're going to find that this field,
the variable frames in packet field,
is always going to be
set to zero for VBR data.
However,
in the case of variable frame rate data,
you're going to find that this
field is going to contain the number
of frames in that specific packet
in that part of the data stream.
Now, as you might imagine,
ASPDs are kind of important.
They're also kind of
complicated to fill out.
The good news is that there are
lots of ways to fill them out.
Probably the easiest way to get
an ASPD filled out is to just
let the Core Audio APIs do it.
Every Core Audio API uses an
ASPD to represent and describe
the format of its data.
So, consequently,
you're going to find that you're
going to be getting ASPDs from it
and giving them back all the time,
so you might as well just use the
ones the API hands out to you.
We also provide the Audio Format API to
help you out with filling in ASBD.
The Audio Format API is
a property-based API.
In fact,
all the API calls in the audio format
are related to property manipulation.
One of the interesting things
the Audio Format API can do
for you is that given just the
format ID and the magic cookie,
you can have the Audio Format
API fill out in ASBD.
SBD for you.
Now the final mechanism I want to talk
about in terms of filling out ASBDs
is to just plug the Core Audio SDK.
You'll find a class in that SDK in
our public utility section called
CA Stream Basic Description.
It is a big,
giant raft of information about
formats and filling out ASBDs.
Even though the code is C++,
and a lot of you Objective-C programmers
may be wary of using it,
you should still take a look and
understand what this code is doing so
that you can at least get the knowledge
transferred out of that code and
into your head so that you can use it.
Now that we've kind of looked at
some of the general attributes
of the Core Audio API,
we looked a little bit about ASBDs
because they're really important.
I kind of want to talk a little bit
about some of the usage cases and
use those as a stepping stone to
introduce you to lots of the actual
Core Audio APIs you're going to use in
order to accomplish the usage cases.
So the first case I want to
start with is converting audio
data from one format to another.
Now one thing to be aware of,
the audio converter is only
supported on the desktop.
It is not supported on the phone.
So everything I'm going to talk
about in terms of audio converter
for now does not apply to the iPhone.
Now, in order to use a converter,
you have to actually make one,
and that's what the Audio Converter
New function is for.
In order to call Audio Converter New,
you need to have the properly filled
out ASPDs for your input format and
the output format to the conversion.
Now, one thing to note is that one
or both of the input or output
formats has to be linear PCM.
In other words,
you can go from linear PCM to
another linear PCM format,
or you can go from linear
PCM to an encoded format,
or you can go from an encoded
format back to a linear PCM format.
The Audio Converter does not do
transcoding between encoded formats.
Now,
once you've created your audio converter,
there are usually a bunch of other
properties you're going to want to
set on it to control the conversion.
This is also the time and place where
you will tell the audio converter about
the magic cookie for your input stream.
And you will also use this
as an opportunity to set up
various settings on the encoder,
such as the quality of the
encoding or the bit rate to use,
etc.
After you have an audio converter,
you have to be able to move
the data through it in order
to do the transformation.
So the audio converter provides two
basic functions for you to do this.
The first is a very specialized function,
audio converter convert buffer.
This function is there strictly for
converting between linear PCM formats.
And only then if you do not have
a sample rate conversion involved.
Now, we also provide the audio converter
fill complex buffer format.
And this function can do linear
PCM to linear PCM conversions.
It can also do it with rate conversion.
In fact,
this is the function you're going
to call to pretty much convert any
kind of format from one to the other.
Jeff Moore
Now, we were talking a little bit
earlier about format agnosticism.
And if you're following those practices,
you probably won't even use audio
converter or convert buffer and
will just concentrate your code on
audio converter fill complex buffer,
given that it's the most flexible way
to move the data through the converter.
So you can pull data out of the
converter using the appropriate call.
So now you need to be able to
get the data into the converter
in order for it to be converted.
So you do this by implementing
an input data callback.
And you pass the input data callback to
the converter when you make your call
to audio converter fill complex buffer.
Now, what the converter does with
this function is a couple things.
First, this is the function that
gets called to the converter.
It gets called whenever the
converter needs input data
for it to do the conversion.
Now, in the callback,
what you provide back to the converter
is just pointers to your data.
You don't copy your data.
In fact,
the converter has been specifically
plumbed to eliminate as many
extra copies of data as it
can for performance reasons.
Now, the key thing about these
pointers that you return is that
they have to remain very valid.
In other words,
they have to continue to point at
good memory until your input callback
is called again by the converter.
Now, the other big job you have
to do in your input callback,
as I said earlier,
is if you're dealing with a variable
bit rate or variable frame rate format,
you have to be sure you provide the
packet descriptions of the buffers that
you're providing into the converter.
So you can get data out,
you can push data in.
What do you do,
how do you know when you're done,
or what do you even do?
Basically,
there are two end-of-stream modes
that you need to know about.
The first is the one where you just
have no more data and you're really
at the end of the stream and you're
never gonna have any more input data.
And the way you signal that to the
converter is that you return zero
packets of data in your input proc as
well as no error from your input proc.
So your input proc will return
an error code and you should
return zero in this case.
And this will tell the
converter that you're done,
you don't have any more
input data to give it.
And so the converter will know
not to call your input data,
your input data proc anymore.
Now, the other situation is kinda
like the first situation,
only it's kind of a momentary situation
where let's say you're decoding data
coming over the network and you're
in the middle of downloading and the
packets you need for the next part of the
conversion haven't been downloaded yet.
You can signal this
situation to the converter,
again,
by first by returning no packets of data,
but also you return an error code.
Now, it doesn't really matter
what the error code is,
but you should keep track of it because
what's gonna happen is you're gonna
return that error code to the converter
and then the converter's gonna note
that and see that you mean for this
to be the end of the stream for now.
And then return that error to back to
you through the return value to the call
to audio converter fill complex data.
So then after you're all
done and you're about,
and so there are a couple
other things you need to know.
If you're going to use the
converter to do another conversion,
let's say, for example,
you're playing through a data
stream and you're seeking
around randomly in the stream,
as you finish each segment,
you're going to need to call the
audio converter reset function
before you start on the next segment.
Now, what the audio converter reset
function does is tell the converter
that you're done with a given segment
and to return the converter to
its ground state and clear out any
cache data or any other leftovers.
So the audio converter has a
plug-in API called Audio Codecs.
And audio codecs are also used to
plug into the audio format API because
codecs are expected to be the experts
on the data format that they represent.
So audio codecs are expected to
be the experts on the data format
API because codecs are expected to
API because codecs are expected to be
the experts on the data format API.
So, in your application,
there are a lot of factors
that go into deciding on what
kind of audio data to use.
The first ones are the obvious ones,
bit rate and quality.
For your application,
you may or may not have bandwidth
limitations on how much space
you have to fit your data into.
And if you do, you're going to be very
concerned about the bit rate,
how much space the encoding will take.
And, you know, most encoders will have
control throttles on bit rate.
Now, the other things you're going to
want to be concerned about are
how much does it cost to encode
in terms of CPU and decode,
for that matter.
And that's going to need to play
into the logic in your application.
For example,
you might be very concerned about
the performance of the decoder if
you're trying to decode MP3 and do
a bunch of 3D graphics or something
like that at a high frame rate
in a game or something like that.
Now, another factor that goes into codec
choice is something that doesn't come up
in a lot of people's thinking too often,
and that's the data latency.
Now, what we mean by data
latency is the number,
is the amount of delay between putting
in the first samples into the encoder
and how many zeros it takes the encoder
to spit out before it actually gets
to the beginning of your encoded data.
And this can vary widely
from codec to codec.
And if you're in a real-time situation,
such as like iChat,
you might look at using
something like AAC low delay,
which is a codec that's been specifically
optimized to reduce data latency.
The final factor you're probably
going to want to consider is,
you know, what platform are you on and
what encoders and decoders
does that platform have?
The iPhone has some peculiar limitations,
including the fact that it has a
limited set of decoders available on it.
And the other interesting aspect
of it is the iPhone only allows you
to decode a single instance of AAC,
MP3, or Apple lossless at a time.
That's not one of each at a time.
That's one of any of the three at a time.
So you have to keep that in
mind when you're developing
your iPhone application.
Thank you.
Now here's a little chart I put
up that I put together that kind
of compares and contrasts several
common formats according to the
The topics I just talked about.
I threw 16-bit linear PCM up
there just to kind of give you a
baseline to compare it against.
Now, just a word about the encoding
cost and decoding cost per channel.
Those are desktop numbers
on a fairly hefty CPU.
So you want to take those numbers as kind
of a general way to compare and contrast.
Don't take them as written in stone for
the CPU that you happen to be working on.
One interesting format I want
to call out here is ILBC.
This is a new codec that we've
just added with QuickTime 7.5,
which just shipped yesterday.
ILBC is a speech codec, and as such,
it's geared mostly toward
very low bandwidth situations.
Among the things that ILBC is
really good at is for dealing
with lossy packet situations,
such as in a network environment,
and reconstructing the
data from what you have.
Now I want to talk a little bit about
reading and writing audio data to a file.
The aptly named Audio File API provides
the abstraction that you're going to
use for reading and writing files.
The Audio File API provides a set of
global properties that describe the
capabilities of the system that are much
in common with the Audio Format API,
except that they deal specifically
with the file types that are supported.
The Audio File API provides a set
of global properties that describe
the capabilities of the system
that are much in common with the
file types that are supported.
In the Audio File API,
files are specified using a CFURL that
points into the file system.
They have to be file system URLs.
You can't pass an HTTP URL or
anything like that.
And when you're creating a new file,
you need to have the audio file type
ID of the file you want to create.
And this is to tell the
Audio File API specifically whether
you want a WAV file or an MPEG-4 file
or an AIFC file or what have you.
You also need to have the
ASBD of the format of the data
you're going to put in the file.
And then beyond that,
other information about the file
are going to be set on the file
after you've created it using
the Audio File Property API.
Existing files can be opened.
Just like every other API,
the Audio File API has
properties in order to access
the information about that file.
That's how you're going to find the
ASBD and Magic Cookie for the file,
how you're going to find the
channel layout of the file,
as well as the packet descriptions, etc.
And then there's also
properties for metadata,
such as markers, regions, lyrics,
album covers, pretty much whatever you
can stick in the file.
One word of caution.
When you're using some
kinds of audio files,
you have to be careful about what
sort of information you query of
the file in order to avoid taking
some rather large performance hits.
For example,
files like MPEG-1 files or ADTS or
AC3 files are self-packetized files.
In other words, the packetization is
embedded in the file.
There's no external framing
information in those files.
So in order to discover all
the information about all
the packets in the files,
you have to go through and pretty
much parse every packet in the file.
And as you might imagine,
If you're looking for longer files,
that can take a significant amount of
time when all you want to do is open
the file up and ask how long it is.
So what we provide in the audio file
API are some less time-consuming
alternatives that give you some
estimations as to some of these important
quantities you might want to know.
For example,
there's a property to get the estimated
upper bound on the packet size,
which is how you might want
to govern the packet size.
So in order to do that,
you have to go through and pretty
much parse every packet in the file.
There's no external framing
information in those files.
And then we also have a property
for returning an estimated duration,
which will not need to parse
the whole file to get to it.
So, reading and writing in the audio file
API are pretty much mirror images of
each other in terms of the operation.
Both calls will block until they're
complete and both calls can either go
through the file system cache or not,
depending on what you want.
Now, there are two styles of reads
and writes in the Audio File API,
one that goes by bytes and
one that goes by packets.
You can use the one that uses bytes,
but in keeping with the
format agnosticism theme,
you really want to do your I.O.
in terms of whole packets.
For instance,
it's really the only way to reasonably
handle variable bitrate data,
and it also allows it much
easier to manipulate time because
packets represent a unit of time,
as well as being an
organizational concept.
Now, another operation the
Audio File API provides is a
means to optimize the file.
And so when you optimize the--tell
the Audio File API to optimize a file,
it'll go through and relay the file
out on disk to optimize the access
performance so that the data is
offset into the file at an appropriate
place so that you don't take cache
hits or cache misses in order to
read them and stuff like that.
So we also provide a high-level
API called the Extended Audio File API.
Now, this API,
unlike the regular audio file API,
is only available on the desktop.
And what the Extended Audio File does
is it unites an audio file
with an audio converter.
And what this does is it allows
you to think about the operations
on the file as if you were
dealing purely with linear PCM.
Even if the file was encoded in something
like AAC or lossless or what have you.
The Extended Audio File has analogous
routines to the regular audio file
API for reading and writing to both
existing files and creating new files.
And then, just like the audio once you've
created or opened a file with
the Extended Audio File API,
you're going to use properties in order
to get more information about that.
And in particular,
there's one property you need to set
in order to tell the audio file what
format of data you want to give it,
or in the case of reading,
what format of data you
want it to give you.
And that property is really important
or else you're going to miss,
or else the things aren't going
to work quite the way you expect.
Now, as I said,
the point of the Extended Audio File is
to make it so that you are conceptually
thinking about the data in the
file as if it was linear PCM.
Now, as such,
all the operations in the API are
handled in terms of sample frames.
One thing about the reads
and writes are also very
analogous to the Audio File API.
The difference is that
while reads block always,
the writes in the Extended
Audio File come in two basic flavors.
You have the blocking flavor,
which is pretty much the same as
what you get with the Audio File API,
but you also have a non-blocking form.
Now, the interesting thing about the
non-blocking form is that it will offload
the work of writing to the audio file to
a separate worker thread on your behalf.
Now, the cool thing there is that this is
safe to use in an I/O proc context.
And an I/O proc context,
which we'll talk a little bit
more about in a few minutes,
is a place where you're up
against a real-time deadline,
and doing things like blocking
is going to get in the way.
So, now I want to talk a little bit about
applying effects to some audio data.
Now, to do that, you're going to be
talking about audio units.
Audio units are our plug-in
API that encapsulates signal
processing operations.
Audio units are great.
They can be hooked together either
manually or using an AU graph to
control the connections between them.
Now, as I mentioned before,
this is a processing context.
So, the canonical format that's used
in this case is going to be the
audio unit canonical format.
Now, there's some exceptions to this,
and those are the converter
units and the output units.
Now, the interesting things about
those two categories of audio
units is that they also encompass
an audio converter in them,
so that they can handle
other formats as well.
well as just the canonical format.
Now, on the desktop,
audio units also provide a GUI component
that your app can use to display to
the user to allow the user to interact
with the parameters of the audio unit.
Parameters are exactly what you think.
Those are the,
they're much like properties except
that they represent the portion,
the controllable portions of
the signal processing algorithm.
For example, if it was,
if you're talking about an
audio unit that is using an EQ,
the parameters are things like
the cutoff frequency and the
amplitude and the resonance.
Parameters, unlike properties,
are always the same value and that value
is a single 32-bit floating point number.
However, the range and meaning of this
value is going to be different
from parameter to parameter.
And the audio unit can fill
out an audio unit parameter
infrastructure for you in order to
describe what the valid range is,
what the units of the parameter are,
etc., etc.
Audio units also allow you to
change parameters by scheduling
them in the future as well as being
able to ramp them from one value
to another value continuously.
And these two operations
are really important for
applications that are trying to
automate their signal processing,
you know, such as in a digital audio
workstation environment.
Audio units organize all
their I/O into buses.
Each audio unit will always have
some number of input buses and
some number of output buses.
Each individual bus has some number of
channels in its stream and may or may
not have an audio channel layout that
describes the usage of the channels
in that bus in surround contexts.
Now, when you're dealing with the
property API and you're talking
about a bus-related property,
you have to make sure that you address
the bus on each bus on its own element.
So, in order to use an audio unit,
the first thing you have to
do is locate it and find the
one that you're interested in.
Now, one thing we'll say up front
is the component manager has
been deprecated on the desktop,
and it's not available
at all on the iPhone.
So, in order to use the various
audio components on the system,
such as audio units and audio codecs,
you need to use the new API in the audio
unit framework called audio-component.h.
The audio component API is
basically a one-for-one replacement
for the component manager.
For example,
you're going to use audio component
findNext instead of findNext component.
You're going to use audio component
instance new instead of open component.
Now, you have to be sure that as a
host that you don't try to mix
and match audio components with
component manager components.
They are not interchangeable
at the host level,
even though underneath they
may still be implemented as
the same underlying API object.
Now, don't worry.
Even though the component
manager is deprecated,
your existing component manager code
is still going to continue to work,
but we would really advise
you to start moving on.
You can use the component
manager to start moving away
from using the component manager
for audio unit discovery.
So once you've found your audio unit,
you configure the audio unit by,
guess what, using properties.
And this is the time where you're
going to set the sample rate of
the audio unit and as well as the
maximum number of frames that you're
going to ever call the audio unit
to render for in one single call.
Now, both properties are important,
you know,
the sample rate for the obvious reason,
but you have to be sure you set
the max frames on the audio unit.
Because if you don't,
you might get an unexpected error
on down the road when you're on the
real-time thread trying to render
because you're asking for more data than
the audio unit is prepared to render for.
Now, other properties for the audio
unit you can then set up such as,
you know,
algorithmic specific attributes such as,
you know, reverb time or EQ cutoff
frequency or whatever.
And this is also the time at
which you're going to set up
the audio unit's connections.
And audio units support several different
flavors of callback and you're going
to want to install your callbacks
at the initialization time as well.
So once you finish
configuring your audio unit,
you then call Audio Unit Initialize
to tell the audio unit that you're
done configuring it and you want it to
get ready to process some audio data.
This is the signal to the
audio unit that it can go ahead
and allocate large tables,
delay lines, load impulse response files,
do other things that might take up a
lot of space or otherwise might take
some time in order to accomplish.
And you need to do this,
things that need to be done
before you start rendering.
And then in order to tell
the audio unit to render,
you just call audio unit render.
And when you call it,
you have to pass in the timestamp
that indicates the relative
stream position that you want
the audio unit to render for.
You also have to pass in the number of
frames you want the audio unit to render.
And again, to be careful,
you have to make sure you don't
pass a number of frames larger
than the max frames that you set
in the initialization sequence.
And then you also have to pass
an audio buffer list in in order
to receive the buffers from the
rendered buffers from the audio unit.
Now, the buffers that you pass in the
audio buffer list can come two ways.
You can either pass pointers
to actual blocks of memory,
in which case you're telling
the audio unit that you want
it to render its output into
the memory that you provide it.
Or you can pass null pointers.
And this is telling the audio unit
that you want it to render its output
into the memory that you provide it.
into its own internal buffers and to
provide you with pointers into them.
Now, this is useful for optimizing the
data flow and memory copies in your
various overall chain of audio units.
Now, then after you're done rendering,
you, much like the audio converter,
there's an audio unit reset
call that will return the
audio unit to its ground state.
And this will also kill
things like reverb tails,
stop delays, clear out FFT buffers,
what have you.
So that's how you get the data out.
To get data into the audio unit,
you basically have two choices.
You can either get the data
from another audio unit,
in which case you can make a manual
connection in the setup phase of
your audio unit using kAudioUnit
property make connection to directly
connect the output bus from one audio
unit to the input bus of another.
Or you could use the AUGraph API.
The AUGraph API's whole reason for
being is to provide for the management
of the connections in what can be a
very complicated graph of connections.
Now,
the other way you can get audio into your
audio unit is to use a render callback.
Now, you install render callback using
KAudioUnit property set render callback.
And much like the input data
callback for the audio converter
that we talked about earlier,
this is the function that the
audio unit will then call whenever
it needs data for that bus.
Now, you have to be careful.
These two methods,
whether you use a connection to
another audio unit or a callback,
those are mutually exclusive.
You can only do one or the other
on each bus of the audio unit.
But you can mix and
match on a per bus basis.
So we ship a lot of audio
units in the system that have
a lot of different kinds,
starting with effects and music effects,
such as these are your delays, EQs,
high-pass, low-pass filters,
dynamics processing, what have you.
The difference between a music
effect and an effect is that music
effects can be controlled using MIDI.
And we have panner units.
Panner units are there for applying
spatialization and other kinds of sound
positioning algorithms to a sound.
We have format converters,
which I mentioned earlier.
Format converters,
in addition to being able to accept
very non-canonical audio formats,
format converters can also be flexible in
the way they pull for their input data,
and as such are also used where
you find audio units that do
things like pitch shifting,
time compression expansion,
and other kinds of algorithms
that manipulate time.
We also have generators
and music devices.
These are sources of audio,
of new audio in an audio graph,
and music devices in particular represent
things like software synthesizers.
Generators can also represent other
things like file players or the
scheduled slice playing audio unit,
which we ship on the desktop.
Jeff
And then we also have mixer units,
and you're going to find that we
ship several different kind of
mixers on each of the platforms,
and that's always going to at least
be a stereo mixer and a 3D mixer.
On the desktop,
we also ship a few other mixers,
including the Matrix mixer,
which is really good for doing
routing and other complex mix setups.
And then finally, we have output units.
Output units are the sinks in a graph.
That's where the data goes in
order to go out to the hardware or
to be pulled out of the graph and
written to a file or what have you.
So now I want to finish up by kind of
going over a little bit about how you
get your audio data out to the speaker.
Now, there are probably more APIs in
Core Audio for playing audio than just
about doing any other single task.
So the first method I want to
talk about is using the audio HAL.
Now, the HAL is among the lowest-level
pieces of software we have in the stack.
And as such,
the HAL's job is really to be focused
on providing access to the audio
device on the audio device's terms.
As such, you're not going to find that
the HAL provides much in the
way of convenience functions.
It doesn't provide much
in the way of utilities.
And it's not going to provide much
in the way of the software itself.
But it's also very chatty.
The HAL provides a lot of notifications,
and applications that are talking
directly to the HAL are going to be
expected to sign up for and handle
all these notifications appropriately.
Now, when you're dealing with mixing
for dealing with the HAL,
you're pretty much,
as with anything else in the HAL,
on your own.
In your IOPROC,
which is what the HAL calls
in order to get data from you,
you also have to be very, very careful.
This PROC is called on a real-time
thread and is up against a hard deadline.
So you can't do things on that
thread that are going to cause it
to potentially miss that deadline,
like block while you're
trying to lock a lock,
spin on a spin lock,
or do a file I.O., or what have you.
Now, given all the general complexity
of using the HAL directly,
we really don't recommend
that many applications do it.
We provide higher-level abstractions
that make it a bit easier.
The other thing is that the HAL is
not available to you on the iPhone,
so you can't even go there on the phone.
So to step up from the how,
we provide output audio units.
Now, the only difference between an
output audio unit and a regular
audio unit is the addition of
these two transport methods.
Audio output unit start
and audio output unit stop.
And they do what their names imply.
They start and stop IO.
There are two basic flavors
of output unit that you're
going to want to deal with.
AU-HAL,
which is only available on the desktop.
And this audio unit is what does
all the really hard and complicated
work I was talking about earlier
with being a proper HAL client.
And it does all this
so you don't have to.
So for most of you,
it's going to be a little
bit more complicated.